Dear all, all
Buddhists, wherever we see something, we should consciously pick up
litter. No Buddhist temple, no one, no Buddhist club, we should all consciously
collect trash. Everyone should
do this consciously, doing everything with a mindful mind. I hope
all Buddhists will be
mindful. If we see something, a leaf,
a piece of paper, a small string,
a candy wrapper – anything that falls on the
road – we should pick it up.
Do you understand, dear fellow practitioners? We should pick it up with a mindful mind.
Going to Japan is great. Dear fellow practitioners,
in Japan there are no trash cans; everyone
consciously brings trash home. So, outside of
Japan, there are no trash cans.
That's great. People
bring trash home,
but we take our trash out onto the street. At home,
people sort their trash and only carry it
home; they can't
leave trash on the street. You
won't see a single
trash can, except when you go down
to the
designated smoking area.  They put a
trash can there for people to
throw cigarette butts in, that's all.
They don't have trash cans at
public bus stations,
but on the streets, there are
no trash cans. You go everywhere and
don't see any trash cans. It's so clean, so spotless, like it's been wiped clean. I
went to a very large temple in the afternoon, around
4:30 PM. There were so many
people there, many
times more than at our Ba Vang Temple,
but there wasn't a
single piece of trash. People are self-
aware; if they see trash on the street, they pick it up
and take it home. That's why
Japan's economy is so
developed; because of people like that, the karmic consequences are
like that.
Do you agree, great friends? That's how karma works for people, how can it not be?
That's why we ourselves are so
careless.  Therefore, the karmic consequences will
not be good for us. That's why when
we go to the temple, everyone does the same. If we
see a piece of trash, we bend down to pick it up. If we see
a fallen leaf, we bend down to pick it up. Don't
think that's the job of the sanitation staff. It's not just
us; we do the same every day. When
we go to the temple, we Buddhists do the same. Whenever we see a leaf, we
pick it up. The temple has so many trash cans, so
many trash cans, right, dear fellow
practitioners? Therefore,
we should cultivate mindfulness and contemplation, realizing that we have
things we need to learn and be ashamed of.
Where we are in the next life is determined by the karma of
this life, dear fellow practitioners. Therefore,
we must have a sense of community,
not littering indiscriminately on the street. When
we see an opportunity, we should
pick up trash and throw it into the trash can.
We Buddhists must do this.
Absolutely do not litter, dear fellow practitioners,
and teach your children and grandchildren the same. If
others litter, that's their business; we
must pick up trash ourselves. We must
not be careless; we must pick up
trash from the street and throw it into the trash
cans.  That's how
we can be mindful, Venerable Monks and Nuns. When we go out and
see a rock, we
have to park our bikes neatly and then throw the rock away.
Except in the dark, where we're afraid it might be a
trap set by some gang to rob us,
we don't do it. But normally,
whenever we see something
normal, we should do it. From now on,
Buddhists going to the temple, all of
us in the club, whoever sees a fallen leaf,
trash, or anything else, we should pick it up. Venerable Monks and Nuns, please
pick up all the pebbles and stones. They're
inconsiderate,
but we shouldn't be as inconsiderate as the leaf, okay,
Venerable Monks and Nuns? No, we should
n't be inconsiderate like the leaf, we shouldn't be inconsiderate
like the pebble. Just go
to the temple, but on our way,
if we see anything, we should
always pick it up and put it in the trash can.
Except in cases where we're in a hurry, if we're
not in a hurry, we'll always pick it up. It's
become a habit. For example, when
it's raining, we should always be mindful. If we
see something falling, we should...  It's very big.
It must be as big as, bigger than this one.
It's this long. If it's dead, we
pick it up, and if it's alive, we pick it up and put it in the
ground so it can continue living. If it's floating on the
road, we have to do something
to bring it inside, put it in a place with land
so it can live. If it's dead, we have to bring it inside. Firstly, it won't get dirty. Secondly, we don't want the corpse to be run over by a car, we don't want the corpse to be torn apart. So when we see a
dead body, we... We know that
sentient beings still have attachments, so we
also respect it. We pick it up when it's
dead. We pick it up when it's
dead. It's not just about cleaning the temple; we also respect the corpses of sentient beings that are out on the road. It's not about seeing a dead body and carelessly stepping on it.
If we see one, we put it
aside to show respect to sentient beings,
right? You all
must respect them, my fellow practitioners.
Therefore, my heart and mind hope that each of you...
We all share this awareness,
not just at the Golden Pagoda, but in
our villages, hamlets, homes, streets, and especially for
those of you who own shops:
never throw trash outside your door.
Don't sweep it up and leave it outside.
Instead, sweep the trash into a bag and bring it
inside your shop or store. Keep everything
clean. Then, when the garbage truck passes by,
put it on the garbage truck, or
only dispose of it at designated times. We
must all do this; it's a sign of
respect and it also increases our merit and attracts
more customers.
Therefore, if we want to sell our goods,
our awareness must be
good. That's the only way to succeed. Furthermore, for those of you who
own shops, especially during
this hot season, if you
sell goods outside, on the sidewalk, or nearby,
please provide a free water dispenser
for people to drink. Is that
okay? Remember, dear fellow
practitioners, if you sell goods, provide a water dispenser and hang a
free water dispenser. It's
both an act of charity and a way to attract customers.
Those women are so lucky, dear.
They got a sip of water, and next time I
want to buy some too. They'll come to my place too,
right? So let's leave
those water bottles. If we
have the means, let's try
to do good deeds so that it
benefits us. K
[music]